hey how's it going guys this is Dave -
Dee and this is my first video in what I
hope to be a series of videos called why
the hype so sometimes when a new product
category comes out or when a heavily
anticipated product gets leaked or
revealed the tech community gets really
excited and it's kind of easy to get
lost in the hype so right now there's a
lot of hype about the Galaxy s6 and the
s6 edge and specs are detailed and
compared but a lot of these specs are
kind of meaningless without context and
that's what I hope to do with these
videos it's to provide context so I'm
just gonna say it straight up I really
like the iPhone 6 I realized it's not
for everyone and there's a bunch of
things I dislike about it and even
things I absolutely hate about it but in
the end of the day there isn't an
Android phone that I prefer over it to
use as my daily now I've used a bunch of
them like basically all the flagships
the HTC One m8 I'm using the anat the
Nexus 6 right now the Moto X 2014 I've
used an S 5 and s 4 a note for a note
edge I've I've tried them all
extensively and I still prefer the
iPhone 6 but recently the Samsung Galaxy
s6 and s6 edge were revealed at MWC and
this is the first time I've ever been
truly excited about an Android phone and
to explain why here's my video the
galaxy s6 and s6 edge why the hype so I
think most people would agree these two
phones are the best-looking phones that
Samsung has ever designed parts of the
phone do look really similar to the
iPhone 6 and I really don't like how's
Samsung imitates the designs of other
companies but aesthetically these two
phones look nicer than anything else
Samsung has made so instead of the
polycarbonate that Samsung has been
using for so many years this thing has a
lot of glass and aluminum and I think
that's a really good thing the color
options are nice and for the people that
want it the blue and green are pretty
loud but I think the direction of design
was a very big step for Samsung to take
and I think it'll pay off an iPhone 6
measures in at 67 millimeters wide and
138 millimeters tall it's not a
particularly large or small phone but in
the current generation of smart phones
it's a pretty average size but the s6
and the S
edge are really similar in dimension to
the iPhone 6 so the s6 has a width of 71
millimeters and a height of 143
millimeters definitely bigger in both
dimensions but similar and the s6 edge
even with its curved screen also has a
very similar dimension of 70 millimeters
by 142 millimeters and in terms of
thickness and weight all three phones
are very similar so all in all the
differences in weight and dimensions are
pretty slight so you're probably
wondering why I'm even bringing this up
just keep in mind that all three phones
have a similar size and a very similar
weight the battery on the samsung phone
is quite a bit bigger than the iPhone 6
battery which is kind of neat
considering these similar dimensions and
weight and it also has this quick
charging feature and so Samsung says
that with a 10 minute charge it can grab
enough juice for four hours of use and
if it works as advertised without
destroying the long-term life of the
battery that's really useful and quite
awesome so in terms of the displays I'm
not going to talk much about the curved
screen on the galaxy s6 edge
I think there's quite a bit of coverage
about that already and personally I
think it's super cool I do want one but
I think it's a bit of a gimmick just
because I mean despite the marketing
pitches that Samsung has done I don't
really see any real-world use for those
curved screens but I do want to talk
about these screens in general so even
though the s6 and the s6 edge have
similar dimensions with the iPhone 6 the
screens on the Samsung phones are much
bigger than the screen on the iPhone 6
so the iPhone 6 has a 4.7 inch screen
with the 1334 by 750 res and the Samsung
phones Rock a 5.1 inch screen that has a
2560 by 1440 res so this is a noticeably
larger screen and a significantly higher
res screen while being in a pretty
similar size package I mean if the
iPhone 6 had a 5.1 inch screen like this
it would be pretty damn cool the pixel
density is crazy high at 577 PPI and if
I'm not mistaken this is the highest
pixel density on any smartphone right
now in the market but to be fair you
really have to focus at these pixels
like really look up close to appreciate
this kind of pixel density but Samsung
likes to play the specification game and
as long as the battery life doesn't get
wrecked by going super high res like
this I think consumers win
for many people cameras are one of the
most important features on a smartphone
and for me one of the biggest reasons
why I like the iPhone 6 so much is
because it takes incredible photos and
it takes them quickly and it's been said
if you want to beat the iPhone you have
to beat the camera on the iPhone now
every Android phone that comes out they
always talk about how they have the next
great camera and the truth is I mean
they're very good some of them are even
great but none of them have been the
best but from what I've seen so far it
really looks like the camera on the s6
and the s6 edge are actually going to be
comparable and potentially better than
the camera on the iPhone 6 so it's a 16
megapixel camera and normally I don't
care about resolution and quite frankly
16 megapixel seems like a ton of pixels
excessively so but I shoot my youtube
videos in 4k and I'm starting to get to
the point where I wish that I could
shoot 4k video with my phone so right
off the bat having access to a 4k
shooter in your pocket is really nice
it's not game breaking but it's nice
because the iPhone 6 with its 8
megapixel camera can't do that but the
big thing is aperture the s6 camera has
an aperture of f11 whereas the iPhone 6
camera has an aperture of f-22 so the
lower F number of 1.9 corresponds to a
larger aperture size and in really basic
terms and I mean this is really
oversimplified the new Samsung phones
have a wider hole in the lens which
allows more light to reach the sensor in
the camera so what does this do okay so
this allows your camera to work its
electronic shutter quicker which lets
you take action shots quicker and it
reduces camera shake and also lets you
capture shots with better bokeh and also
gives you better pictures in low light
so generally speaking having a bigger
aperture or a lower F number is going to
result in better photos now aperture is
only a part of the equation but having
you know better processing which Samsung
says that they've done optical image
stabilization and a proven Sony sensor
I'm really excited for the photos that
are going to come out of this thing so
both of these phones are gonna be
running Android 5 lollipop which is
awesome but Samsung likes to put on this
thick layer of Samsung icing with
TouchWiz in
Samsung Apps but there is one app that
I'm really interested in and that's
Samsung pay so this is a mobile payment
system like Apple pay or Google Wallet
and it can use NFC like Apple pay and
Google Wallet but it also uses a new
tech called MST which is magnetic secure
transmission now take this footage with
a grain of salt because it is from a
Samsung ad but the idea is that you can
use your phone to transmit a magnetic
signal that should work with any
old-school magnetic stripe terminal
Samsung bought this MST Tech and
implemented the hardware into their
phones directly so this is really
convenient for users like us but it's
also really convenient for retailers so
if you can imagine a really big company
like Starbucks or McDonald's if they
need to change their point-of-sale
systems to accept NFC payments that's
something they can do I mean they're a
big company they can do it but if you're
a small company like let's say you're a
mom and pops you know you have a comic
book store or like that like a vinyl
record shop or something like that
you're probably not gonna want to spend
the money to invest in NFC payments and
even if you do want to spend it maybe
you can't afford it so the cool thing
about this tech from Samsung is that
basically any kind of magnetic stripe
point-of-sale system already works with
samsung pay or theoretically so just
from an adoption perspective this is
amazing because that means that a lot of
people already accept Samsung pay and
they don't even know it but in terms of
its security and stuff like that I have
no idea it could be terrible it could be
amazing but time will tell regardless I
think this is really cool tech and I'm
super excited to see where it goes so
there are some things I don't really
care about the first one that comes to
mind is their eight core CPU I know
Samsung made a big deal about it and
some of you tubers are really excited
about it personally I think that just
sounds like Samsung wanted some more
ammunition for the spec board because an
eight core CPU for mobile device sounds
really silly other things I don't love
the AMOLED display I've always found
ammo LEDs to be a little bit
oversaturated this is just personal
preference you guys might like it it's
just not for me so I'm quite excited or
rather I'm hopeful that one of these
phones will be awesome enough to replace
my iPhone 6 as my daily so that's the
end of the video if you guys liked it
give me some thumbs and if you guys love
to give me some subs and if you guys
want to see more of these videos these
why the hype video
please let me know in the comments below
and if you have any questions or
comments again type them below and as
always it's been nice I'll see you guys
next time